[DRAFT] Sam Bhagwat blog funding open source (#19695)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/blog/2019-11-21-sustainable-open-source/index.md

---
title: "Founding Organizations: Creating a Company That Sustains Our Open-Source Community"
date: 2019-11-21
author: Sam Bhagwat

> excerpt: "Introducting the Community Investment Commitment -  a commitment by founding organizations to have an open source headcount proportion of at least 10% -- in other words, to dedicate at least one-tenth of their organization to observable open source contributions."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
excerpt: "Introducing the Community Investment Commitment -  a commitment by founding organizations to have an open source headcount proportion of at least 10% -- in other words, to dedicate at least one-tenth of their organization to observable open source contributions."
```

Reviewer: Nit: Use a real em dash instead of —

tags:
  - open-source
  - gatsby-cloud
  - community
---

> Thriving countries are built on a system of public infrastructure -- from rule of law to transportation to healthcare to education. When governments underprovide these, citizens&#39; quality of life suffers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thriving countries are built on a system of public infrastructure -- from rule of law and transportation to healthcare and education. When governments underprovide these, citizens&#39; quality of life suffers.
```

Reviewer: Nit: Use a real em dash instead of —

As open source communities grow, they are dependent on maintainers to provide bugfixes, features, and architectural changes. When maintainers underprovide these, the technology often falls behind the times and community members&#39; careers, and quality of life, suffer.

How do we make sure public goods are adequately provided?

The structure (national/regional/local), functions, size, and funding sources of governments are informed by decades if not centuries of political philosophy &amp; practice.

> In contrast, the structure, functions, size, and funding sources of open-source maintainer groupsare a largely unsolved questions and, in many cases, the main barrier to successful software projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In contrast, the structure, functions, size, and funding sources of open-source maintainer groups are largely unanswered questions and, in many cases, the main barrier to successful software projects.
```

> One increasingly prominent answer is for founding organizations -- companies founded by key contributors of an open-source project -- to play a crucial role. In many ways, it&#39;s a role resembling a government!

Reviewer: Nit: Use a real em dash instead of —

<Pullquote>
Founding organizations have a responsibility to their projects and communities: to keep them thriving and on the cutting edge. We believe that to fulfill that responsibility, founding orgs must be able to create a successful business model and then make proportional investments in open source as they grow.
</Pullquote>

> And when founding organizations aren&#39;t able to build strong businesses, or then fail to invest adequately, and the project starts falling behind the times, the community should hold founding orgs accountable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And when founding organizations aren&#39;t able to build strong businesses, or then fail to invest adequately, and the project starts falling behind the times, the community should hold them accountable.
```

###Open source has a sustainability problem

> A question that&#39;s frequently discussed in the web development community is how to make open-source maintainable. Some examples:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A question that&#39;s frequently discussed in the web development community is how to make open-source sustainable. Some examples:
```

> - **Henry Zhu**, the lead maintainer of Babel, one of the most-depended-on projects in the Javascript ecosystem, until 2017 was [working on Babel in his free-time](https://www.henryzoo.com/leaving-behance/) while working a full-time job.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Henry Zhu**, the lead maintainer of Babel, one of the most-depended-on projects in the JavaScript ecosystem, until 2017 was [working on Babel in his free-time](https://www.henryzoo.com/leaving-behance/) while working a full-time job.
```

- **Tobias Koppers**, the lead maintainer of webpack, another of the most depended-upon projects in the JavaScript ecosystem, around the same time [penly solicited sponsors](http://www.cross-platform-blog.com/tools/interview-with-webpack-author-tobias-koppers/) in public interviews to fund himself rather than taking freelance work.

Open source is key infrastructure: for comparison, imagine if the lead mechanic on the Brooklyn Bridge had to work on it in his spare time, or hustle for contracts!

Inconsistent or sparse funding isn&#39;t just bad for project _maintainers_. It&#39;s also bad for the _project_ community, because inconsistent funding means inconsistent maintenance. Over time, this is costly to the community as bugs pile up or feature gaps grow, causing user frustration and necessitating workarounds and occasional replacement by the next &quot;new thing&quot;.

> [As Devon Zuegel at GitHub put it:](https://github.blog/2019-01-17-lets-talk-about-open-source-sustainability/) &quot;[Open source] is everywhere, yet it lacks financial and personnel resources. Developers and companies benefit from a vibrant OSS ecosystem, but they lack proportionate incentive to contribute time and money to creating and maintaining projects.&quot;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[As Devon Zuegel at GitHub put it:](https://github.blog/2019-01-17-lets-talk-about-open-source-sustainability/) &quot;[Open source] is everywhere, yet it lacks financial and personnel resources. Developers and companies benefit from a vibrant OSS ecosystem, but they lack proportional incentives to contribute time and money to creating and maintaining projects.&quot;
```

###Thriving open-source communities open opportunities

> One of the lessons we&#39;ve learned from recent economic growth is that for most people, their economic future is tied to their country of residence. The level of economic development and well-being in one&#39;s country of residence strongly influences one&#39;s baseline standard of living, as well as the ups and downs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the lessons we&#39;ve learned from recent economic growth is that for most people, their economic future is tied to their country of residence. The level of economic development and well-being in one&#39;s country of residence strongly influences their baseline standard of living, as well as positive or negative changes to it. 
```
